Owners of dogs will have noticed that, if you provide them with food and water and shelter and affection, they will think you are God. Whereas owners of cats are compelled to realize that, if you provide them with food and water and affection, they draw the conclusion that they are God.
Religion is part of the human make-up. It's also part of our cultural and intellectual history. Religion was our first attempt at literature, the texts, our first attempt at cosmology, making sense of where we are in the universe, our first attempt at health care, believing in faith healing, our first attempt at philosophy.
What can be asserted without evidence can be dismissed without evidence.
The fact is: It's true what they say about the United States. It is a land of opportunity. It is too various to get bored with it.
I learned that very often the most intolerant and narrow-minded people are the ones who congratulate themselves on their tolerance and open-mindedness.
There are all kinds of stupid people that annoy me but what annoys me most is a lazy argument.
My own view is that this planet is used as a penal colony, lunatic asylum and dumping ground by a superior civilisation, to get rid of the undesirable and unfit. I can't prove it, but you can't disprove it either.
To the dumb question, 'Why me?' the cosmos barely bothers to return the reply, 'Why not?'
A gentleman is never rude except on purpose - I can honestly be nasty sober, believe you me.
In one way, I suppose, I have been 'in denial' for some time, knowingly burning the candle at both ends and finding that it often gives a lovely light.
The totalitarian, to me, is the enemy - the one that's absolute, the one that wants control over the inside of your head, not just your actions and your taxes.
It doesn't take much to make me angry.
I'm not particularly a feminist, but if you get women off the animal cycle of reproduction and give them some say in how many children they'll have, immediately the floor will rise.
I'm crepuscular.
To terrify children with the image of hell... to consider women an inferior creation. Is that good for the world?
I've had some dark nights of the soul, of course, but giving in to depression would be a sellout, a defeat.
Solidarity is an attitude of resistance, I suppose, or it should be.
Even if I accepted that Jesus - like almost every other prophet on record - was born of a virgin, I cannot think that this proves the divinity of his father or the truth of his teachings. The same would be true if I accepted that he had been resurrected.
Trust is not the same as faith. A friend is someone you trust. Putting faith in anyone is a mistake.
To 'choose' dogma and faith over doubt and experience is to throw out the ripening vintage and to reach greedily for the Kool-Aid.
Terrorism is the tactic of demanding the impossible, and demanding it at gunpoint.
I don't think it's possible to have a sense of tragedy without having a sense of humor.
All the time, I've felt that life is a wager and that I probably was getting more out of leading a bohemian existence as a writer than I would have if I didn't.
I boldly assert, in fact I think I know, that a lot of friendships and connections absolutely depend upon a sort of shared language, or slang. Not necessarily designed to exclude others, this can establish a certain comity and, even after a long absence, re-establish it in a second.
Henry Kissinger should have the door shut in his face by every decent person and should be shamed, ostracized and excluded.
Littera scripta manet - 'The written word will remain'. That's true, but it won't be that much comfort to me.
High moral character is not a precondition for great moral accomplishments.
A good day is one where I can not just read a book, but write a review of it. Maybe today I'll be able to do that. I get for some reason somewhat stronger when the sun starts to go down. Dusk is a good time for me. I'm crepuscular.
The advice I've been giving to people all my life - that you may not be interested in the dialectic but the dialectic is interested in you; you can't give up politics, it won't give you up - was the advice I should have been taking myself.
The term 'the American Left' is as near to being meaningless or nonsensical as any term could really be in politics. It isn't really a force in politics anymore. And it would do well to ask itself why that is.
Cancer victimhood contains a permanent temptation to be self-centred and even solipsistic.
I don't consider myself to be that credulous.
The cause of my life has been to oppose superstition. It's a battle you can't hope to win - it's a battle that's going to go on forever. It's part of the human condition.
I'm not a sheep.
For most of my life I let women do the driving and was happy to let them.
There's a big difference, as I'm sure you know, it's a slightly manneristic one, between people of the '60s and people of '68. Being a soixante-huitard - it's so nice to have a French word for it - is very different from just having happened to been a baby boomer in the '60s.
There's been some research in cognitive science, I'm told, that discloses that there have always been perhaps 10 to 15 percent of people who are, as Pascal puts it, so made that they cannot believe. To us, when people talk about faith, it's white noise.
My children, to the extent that they have found religion, have found it from me, in that I insist on at least a modicum of religious education for them.
I don't envy or much respect people who are completely politicised.
The suicide-bombing community is not absolutely 100 percent religious, but it is pretty nearly 100 percent religious.
I could not do what I do, and teach a class, and never miss a deadline, never be late for anything if I was a lush, OK? I would really love to read a piece that said, 'He is not a lush.' That would be fabulous, it would be a first, I could show it to people and say, 'Look!'
The violence in the Bible is appalling.
Talking, it seemed to me, was the point of adult existence.
I retain what's interesting to me, but I don't have a lot of strategic depth.
'Bombing Afghanistan back into the Stone Age' was quite a favourite headline for some wobbly liberals. The slogan does all the work. But an instant's thought shows that Afghanistan is being, if anything, bombed out of the Stone Age.
When we talk about mortality, we are talking about our children.
Literature, not scripture, sustains the mind and - since there is no other metaphor - also the soul.
I became a journalist partly so that I wouldn't ever have to rely on the press for my information.
I'm afraid the SS's relationship with the Catholic Church is something the Church still has to deal with and does not deny.
Millions of people die every day. Everyone's got to go sometime.
One of the great questions of philosophy is, do we innately have morality, or do we get it from celestial dictation? A study of the Ten Commandments is a very good way of getting into and resolving that issue.
One of the many problems with the American left has been its image as something rather too solemn, mirthless, herbivorous, dull, monochrome, righteous, and boring.
It's true that obscenity is a matter of taste and in the eye of the beholder.
There are people who cannot forget, as neither do I, the lesson of the years of the Indochina War. Which was, first, that the state is capable of being a murderer. A mass murderer, and a conspirator and a liar.
The press is still investing itself, it seems to me, in a sort of cynicism. It comes out better for them if they can predict hard times, bogging down, sniping, attrition.
And when I was young, my family was perfectly nice. I write a lot about it, as you noticed. But it was rather limited. I think, I don't think anyone in my family would really feel I'd done them an injustice by saying that. We didn't see many people. There were many books. It was as if I wanted to get away from home.
The amazing fact is that America is founded on a document. It's a work in progress. It can be tested by each generation.
I still think like a Marxist in many ways.
The concept of loneliness and exile and self-sufficiency continually bucks me up.
Beautiful sentences pop into my head. Beautiful sentences that aren't always absolutely accurate. Then, I have to choose between the beautiful sentence and being absolutely accurate. It can be a difficult choice.
